I will show you how you
can find the ways for
your linear layer and for
your word embeddings.
To minimize these two matrices, ways
vectors, you'll have to minimize the cost.
And to minimize the costs,
you will use two techniques.
The first one is Backpropagation.
Backpropagation is an algorithm that
calculates the partial derivatives or
gradient of the cost with respect to the
weights and biases of the neural network.
Remember that the cost J batch is
a function of the weights and biases.
The back in backpropagation comes
from the way the formulas for
the derivatives are obtained
using the chain rule for
derivatives without going
into too much detail.
Using the chain rule involves
starting from the output layer and
then working your way back through
the layers using derivatives that you have
calculated previously.
By the way, backpropagation is a prime
example of dynamic programming,
which you learned about during
the first week of this course.
The second technique you will
use is Gradient Descent,
which adjusts the weights and
biases of the neural network using
the gradient to minimize the costs.
I won't go into the mathematical details
of backpropagation or gradient descent.
But if you're interested in learning more,
check out a course on neural networks to
understand how the various
formulas are derived.
First, let's use back propagation to
calculate the partial derivatives
of the cost function that you'll
need to perform gradient descent.
You need the partial derivatives of
the cost function with respect to
the parameters of the neural network,
which are in this case w1, w2, b1 and b2.
The calculations are long winded and
in practice you'll use Machine Learning
libraries to handle backpropagation for
you.
So I'll just give you the formulas,
which you'll get to implement
in this week's assignment.
The derivative of the cost function
with respect to the weighting matrix,
w1 is as follows.
This is the formula for
the partial derivative of the cost
function with respect to w2.
Here's the formula for the bias vector b1.
Let me pause here for a second.
In this formula,
I've introduced the 1_m vector,
which is a row vector with
m elements that are all 1s.
If you are multiplying a matrix
A that has m rows by the 1_m
vector transposed,
you get the column vector.
Where each element is equal to the sum
of the elements in the corresponding
row of A.
Having said that the one
in vector is introduced for
mostly formal purposes to be able
to write the mathematical formulas.
In practice when you implement this in
Python, the easiest way to calculate some
of the columns is to use numpy some
function, without using the 1_m vector.
In the sum function you need to
specify that you want to get
the sum of the columns where
the parameter axis equal 1.
And you will also need to set
the keepdims parameter to True, so
that the results can be broadcast into a
matrix of whatever size is necessary later
in the calculations.
Finally, here is the formula for
b2, which also uses the 1_m vector.
Now, for the purposes of this course,
you don't have to understand how these
formulas were derived,
you can just use them.
Okay, so
now that you have these gradients,
you can use gradient descent to update
the weight matrices and bias vectors.
The calculations include
a learning rate alpha,
which is a hyper parameter of your model.
And here are the formulas to
update the weights and biases.
The idea is to take
the original parameters and
then subtract all four
times their gradient.
Since alpha is chosen to be a small
positive number, that is less than 1.
The effect of multiplying by alpha is
to reduce the amount by which each
variable is updated at each step.
A smaller alpha allows for more gradual
updates to the weights and biases.
Whereas a larger number allows for
a faster updates of the weights.
So for instance the new weighting matrix
w1 would be equal to the original w1
minus alpha times the partial derivative
of the cost with respect to w1,
which you calculated during
the backpropagation step.
You now know everything you need to
train a continuous bag of words model.
In the next video you'll learn how to
extract word embedding vectors from
a trained continuous bag of words model.
Gradient descent allows you to calculate
the partial derivatives with respect to
the weights and biases.
Once you calculate these partial
derivatives, you can update your weights.
Alpha tells you how much of
a step to take when updating.